# recursive_BST
Recursive implementation of a binary search tree

This program was made to get some practice using recursive functions. It also helped understand some algorithms to use with binary search trees, such as insert, average level, search, etc. When run through the console, the user is given two options: create new tables from scratch or review some pre-filled tables with random values.
The first option is implemented using "NFL player" objects, which use the "Keyed" interface. This interface ensures these objects have some kind of compareTo function to use when traversing the binary search tree. It gives the use some simple options to exercise to create custom tables. The showTree function is kind of interesting here, it displays the tree rotated on its side in the console.
The second option from the main menu sets up eleven groups of ten tables of size 2^N. N increases from four to 15, making the smallest batch of tables have 16 slots and the largest have 32,768. These tables are all filled with random values. Since they're implemented as binary search trees, I used some of the functions from the earlier part of the program to display the average node depth (or, "expected level") of each group of ten tables, as well as the deepest node (or, "worst case scenario"). As it turns out, the largest tables (size 32,768) tended to have an average depth of about 18, with the worst case scenario usually between 38 and 42. This test also determined that the average depth of a binary search tree of size 2^N is in most cases N +-1. Check it out for yourself.
